[Music]
long before people were able to take
their overseas baked eggs by playing
they had to take the long way around
that meant boarding a ship and let's
face it a magnificent ocean voyage was
as luxurious as it could get but you see
a lot of things can go wrong when large
ships did transatlantic crossings
especially during the early 1900's the
passengers weren't aware of the dangers
at the time at least not as much as the
sailors and crewmembers and luckily
enough some of them survived to share
their harrowing stories but I'll get
back to that George William Beauchamp
was the legendary sailor who survived
two major ship disasters at the
beginning of the 20th century he was
unlucky enough to experience these
disasters first and both on board the
Titanic and Lusitania yet he was lucky
enough to survive both or maybe he was a
jinx who knows we'll let the conspiracy
theorist do that one here we'll assume
that he was just in the wrong places at
the wrong times
George Beauchamp was born in Hampshire
England in 1888 and he was the middle
child among four other siblings his dad
was working as a Sawyer in the railway
works when George who was still a
teenager finished school and embarked on
a journey at sea it seems like he was
fascinated by the sea so much that he
was determined to turn it into a career
it proved to be a career choice that
would change his life forever
for a while he worked at the union
castle line which was a British shipping
line that operated a fleet of cargo
ships and passenger liners between
Europe and Africa after that he worked
for the Royal Mail ship and get this
before that time RMS stood for Royal
Mail steamer which indicated that the
Titanic was also constructed to carry
mail as probably why it also had a huge
mailroom and a post office in the decks
fascinating right now back to our story
this later position was the one that
would change his life and it was at the
White Star Line George was really
looking forward to working on board the
unsinkable ship that we all know as
Titanic so he did everything in his
power to get the position you see he
applied for a job as a fireman and he
listed all his credentials in the
application as well forget this at the
time George was 42 years old and he
needed to be younger to work in such a
position because it required a lot of
physical strength so he lied about his
age and claimed that he was 32 he must
have looked the part because he got the
job he would be earning about seven
dollars and fifty cents a month if
you're wondering how much that would be
today it's close to 850 bucks on April
14 1912 at the time of the famous
collision George was on duty he was
working the 8:00 p.m. to 12 p.m. shift
and was down in the number-10 stokehole
he said that he heard a loud bang and it
sounded like a war
not even a minute past and he and his
colleagues were given orders to stop
when the engine stopped the next orders
they were given were to immediately shut
the dampers at the same time the
watertight doors shut completely to
prevent any of the water from getting in
a few minutes later the commander told
the firemen to draw fires but as they
were doing that water started coming in
from underneath the floor at that point
the commander told them all to move to
the escape ladder George started
climbing up and didn't look back until
he made it to the boat deck they had
lifeboats available for all the crew
members and each crew member was
assigned to a different boat however the
list wasn't created until that morning
and not all the crew members had a
chance to look at it
so when George got there he was lost and
there was another problem with the
lifeboats it seemed they had so much
confidence that Titanic was unsinkable
they never even did a boat drill so
almost no one knew what to do in this
situation his mission was to try and
save as many women and children as he
could and he did that successfully on
boat number 13 when he finally managed
to fill the boat with 70 people he was
given orders to lower it that was when a
few men helped themselves in as well
originally George was going to be the
only man in the lifeboat and he was
going to use his strength as fireman to
guide the boat away from the Titanic
using the oars provided but that wasn't
going to be as easy as they thought
unlike many other lifeboats that went
out first
George's boat was too full and even
though it landed slowly and steadily in
the water he still struggled to guide it
away from the ship without getting any
water in it the men who boarded the
lifeboat right before it was lowered to
the sea found
or orbs and help in distancing the
lifeboat away from Titanic to stop it
from taking them down with it they
managed to get away from the sinking
ship but not by far George recalled that
they stopped rowing once they felt they
were at a secure distance George and the
passengers on the lifeboat looked to see
if there was a compass on the lifeboat
and there wasn't so they didn't know
where they were or in which direction to
head now we all know that Titanic sunk
at 2:20 in the morning but the Carpathia
which was the ship who came to the
rescue
didn't pick up George's boat until 9:50
the next morning that means they were
floating in the water for more than
seven hours his boat was amongst the
last ones to be picked up out of a total
of 13 lifeboats filled with people
George had had working experience at sea
for more than ten years when he boarded
the Titanic and when the unfortunate
event happened he thought it would be
the last time he'd have to deal with
such a tragedy but boy was he mistaken
the next ship that George was a crew
member on was the Lusitania and it would
also soon face a catastrophe it was
built in 1906 and by 1915 it had made
202 trips across the Atlantic on may 7th
1915 the ship was close to completing
its 202nd journey from New York to
Liverpool and was about to receive its
first and last hit there were twelve
hundred sixty-six passengers and 696
crew members on board the Lusitania was
traveling parallel to the south coast of
Ireland when it was spotted by a German
u-boat at 2:10 in the afternoon Walther
Schwieger who was the commanding officer
of the u-boat gave the order to fire a
torpedo at the law
ship because they believed that it was
carrying military hardware to Europe
even though the ship was going fast
it wasn't traveling at full speed and
was easily struck by the torpedo on the
starboard bow this caused an explosion
at the point of contact and the ship
began to take in water at an alarming
speed even though there were enough
lifeboats on the ship to save everyone
the situation became chaotic due to the
large list of people and how fast the
ship was sinking less than half of the
people on board survived and among those
was George the Carpathia rescue ship of
this story was a British Cruiser called
June who heard about the sinking a short
time after the ship was struck and left
the harbor in Cork to offer help now
after that you can imagine that George
began to question his decisions about
his career path however his love for the
sea and being a crew member on ships
remain so he found the middle ground
right after he experienced the second
major sinking disaster in his life he
told his family he was officially done
with working on large ships his
announcement was way overdue George
managed to save hundreds of lives during
both disasters but it's still unclear
what his position was on the Lusitania
and where he worked later after he
retired he moved to Southampton in the
UK where he spent the rest of his days
close to the sea now it's your turn
do you know about any more legendary
people who had such extraordinary
experiences let me know in the comments
below if you learn something new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend but hey don't cruise away
just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life
[Music]